there are a number of challenges facing
anyone involved in livestock production
input costs weather and volatile markets
are a few but on a stocker cattle
operation maintaining herd health is a
primary focus it starts a lot with the
commingling from going through the
stockyards and the cattle not being
having any kind of vaccinations or
anything when they before you get them a
lot of the cattle I buy all farmers are
already vaccinated and your sickness
will be minimal on them 99.9% of the
time compared to stockyard cattle flaky
never buys about 2,000 calves a year and
runs them through his 800 acre operation
in northeast Alabama his goal is to put
weight on the animals as efficiently as
possible before sending them to Midwest
feed Lots he says his key to success is
good grass supplemented by quality feed
I've got commodity sheds so I can store
oh I guess they were all full close to
400 tons of feed what I feed varies soy
holes I guess you could say would be my
base ingredient in my ration and then I
mix whatever else wheat meds or corn
gluten or whatever else I can get and I
worked with a nutritionist and whatnot
to try to keep a good ration but I try
to be flexible with whatever right
whatever ingredients I can get at a
reasonable price Kenna mer says he's
fortunate because there's a plant near
his farm that processes soybeans so a
good supply is convenient feeding soy
holes to cattle is a good example of how
farmers make the most of all parts of
America's natural resources soy holes is
a byproduct they they grind so or press
them however they process them to get
all and then the byproducts the oil is
the soybean meal and the soy holes and
it's convenient logistically to be able
to get them 37 miles away instead of
having the truck them a long ways and it
gets him out of their way
Kenna Merce says he started raising
cattle right after he graduated from
college in 1999 but he switched to a
strictly stocker operation about five
years ago having survived some of the
hard times the industry has endured he
says the outlook for beef production
appears bright for years to come the
world demand for protein is growing and
the quality of protein is increasing and
nobody's got better beef than us our
export markets have grown tremendously
the past couple of years they're back
now to where they were in 2003 I think
our biggest increase in volume and the
quality the quality of the meat that we
ship to other countries is really
increasing and that's what's going to
keep our prices sure enough on top in
Jackson County Alabama this is Kevin
Worthington for time well-spent